Add neural search stats API docs (#9624)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _vector-search/api/neural.md

---
layout: default
title: Neural Search API
parent: Vector search API
nav_order: 20
has_children: false
---

> # Neural Search API

Reviewer: Here and in the title, should it be "APIs" (plural)?

GET /_plugins/_neural/stats/<stats>
GET /_plugins/_neural/<nodes>/stats
GET /_plugins/_neural/<nodes>/stats/<stats>
```

### Path parameters

The following table lists the available path parameters. All path parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `nodes` | String | A node or a list of nodes (comma-separated) to filter statistics by. Default is all nodes. |
| `stats` | String | A statistic name or names (comma-separated) to return. Default is all statistics. |

### Query parameters

The following table lists the available query parameters. All query parameters are optional.

| Parameter | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `include_metadata` | Boolean | When `true`, includes additional metadata fields for each statistic (see [Available metadata](#available-metadata)). Default is `false`. |
| `flat_stat_paths` | Boolean | When `true`, flattens the JSON response structure for easier parsing. Default is `false`. | 

#### Example request

```json
GET /_plugins/_neural/node1,node2/stats/stat1,stat2?include_metadata=true,flat_stat_paths=true
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

#### Example response

> If `include_metadata` is `false`, the response looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `include_metadata` is `false`, the response appears as follows:
```

```json
{
  "_nodes": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "cluster_name": "integTest",
  "info": {
    "cluster_version": "3.0.0",
    "processors": {
      "ingest": {
        "text_embedding_processors_in_pipelines": 0
      }
    }
  },
  "all_nodes": {
    "processors": {
      "ingest": {
        "text_embedding_executions": 0
      }
    }
  },
  "nodes": {
    "896MIkjCSnWBHy-SxB62zQ": {
      "processors": {
        "ingest": {
          "text_embedding_executions": 0
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> If `include_metadata` is `true`, the response looks like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If `include_metadata` is `true`, the response appears as follows:
```

```json
{
  "_nodes": {
    "total": 1,
    "successful": 1,
    "failed": 0
  },
  "cluster_name": "integTest",
  "info": {
    "cluster_version": {
      "value": "3.0.0",
      "stat_type": "info_string"
    },
    "processors": {
      "ingest": {
        "text_embedding_processors_in_pipelines": {
          "value": 0,
          "stat_type": "info_counter"
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "all_nodes": {
    "processors": {
      "ingest": {
        "text_embedding_executions": {
          "value": 0,
          "stat_type": "timestamped_event_counter",
          "trailing_interval_value": 0,
          "minutes_since_last_event": 29061801
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "nodes": {
    "896MIkjCSnWBHy-SxB62zQ": {
      "processors": {
        "ingest": {
          "text_embedding_executions": {
            "value": 0,
            "stat_type": "timestamped_event_counter",
            "trailing_interval_value": 0,
            "minutes_since_last_event": 29061801
          }
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

### Response body fields

The following sections describe response body fields.

> #### Statistics categories

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Categories of statistics
```

> The following table lists all statistics categories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists all categories of statistics.
```

| Category | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `info` | Object | Contains cluster-wide information and statistics that are not specific to individual nodes. |
| `all_nodes` | Object | Provides aggregated statistics across all nodes in the cluster. |
| `nodes` | Object | Contains node-specific statistics, with each node identified by its unique node ID. |

#### Available statistics

> The following table lists the available statistics. For statistics with paths prefixed with `nodes.<node_id>`, aggregate cluster-level stats are also available at the same path prefixed with `all_nodes`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table lists the available statistics. For statistics with paths prefixed with `nodes.<node_id>`, aggregate cluster-level statistics are also available at the same path prefixed with `all_nodes`.
```

| Statistic name | Category | Statistic path within category | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `cluster_version` | `info` | `cluster_version` | Version of the cluster. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `cluster_version` | `info` | `cluster_version` | The version of the cluster. |
```

When `include_metadata` is `true`, the field values in the response are replaced by their respective metadata objects, which include additional information about the statistic types, as described in the following table. 

| Statistic type | Description |
| :--- | :--- |
| `info_string` | A basic string value that provides informational content, such as versions or names. See [`info_string`](#info-string).|
| `info_counter` | A numerical counter that represents static or slowly changing values. See [`info_counter`](#info-counter).|
| `timestamped_event_counter` | A counter that tracks events over time, including information about recent activity. See [`timestamped_event_counter`](#timestamped-event-counter).|

<p id="info-string"></p>

The `info_string` object contains the following metadata fields.

| Metadata field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `value` | String | The actual string value of the statistic. |
| `stat_type` | String | `info_string` |

<p id="info-counter"></p>

The `info_counter` object contains the following metadata fields.

| Metadata field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |
| `value` | Integer | The current count value. |

> | `stat_type` | String | Always set to `info_counter` |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `stat_type` | String | Always set to `info_counter`. |
```

<p id="timestamped-event-counter"></p>

The `timestamped_event_counter` object contains the following metadata fields.

| Metadata field | Data type | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :--- |

> | `value` | Integer | The total number of events since the node started. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `value` | Integer | The total number of events that occurred since the node started. |
```

> | `stat_type` | String | `timestamped_event_counter` |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| `stat_type` | String | Always set to `timestamped_event_counter`. |
```
